Explain at its core what a computer really is doing whenever you type a letter on  a keyboard.
	When you type up an email using your keyboard, you are essentially firing off electrical signals that are represented as 0’s and 1’s (Binary). These Binary digits form a Bit of information otherwise known as Data.  A Bit is the smallest unit in Binary. In order for a piece of hardware to do anything with the data you input, it has to run programs. And in order for those programs to work, they need to be written in a way a computer can understand. This is where binary and data come into play. Programs themselves, and what you create when using them are all stored and processed as data. This data of information is further matched and paired up with another system known as ASCII to help translate this date into human readable language.The ASCII system is essentially a system that pairs up a letter from the alphabet with its binary equivalent in order to produce the desired letters as you type. In this way the program is going to see inside the computer’s hardware, the pattern of switches that represent the decimal, letter or symbol that you are trying to type. This complex process of translating your taps and clicks on a mouse and keyboard are all done in an instant by a program running on your OS. The amazing effect of simply typing and seeing your letters printed out on the screen are taken for granted in our day to day lives. All of this happens seamlessly in an instant as we type away at 30 plus words an hour. 

What are the uses of Docker?
	Docker is trending in use by developers because Docker essentially takes your operating system and then splits it into many self contained areas where applications can run in. It's a lot like a virtual machine where you would take a single operating system and then divide it into many small operating systems, each one thinking that they’re running on their own system. The problem with using traditional virtual machines is that they take up way too many resources. Docker brings this abstraction up one more level, such that it’s not operating quite at that level and more on the application level. It's like a command line tool where you just say Docker run the application name of the application that you want to run like PHP or Bash for example. You can just choose the application and simply run it in its own contained space. Docker is a self contained space for applications to be run. A good use of Docker is that it allows you to structure your apps and write code in a different way. Another good use of Docker has to do with its scalability. In regards to structuring your apps, it lets you contain your app in a certain space. This is interesting because let’s say for example that you are not using Docker, and you wanted to sell your website to somebody else. You would have to sell the server and the lease on the server as well. Then the new owner would have to pick up the rental bills of that server on the website that the web application was linked to. With Docker on the other hand, you can take this website and contain it in a container image. That is essentially the whole application and you can redeploy this image on any other server to duplicate the website.functionality.

Why is Docker recommended?
	It is recommended to use Docker because it bundles your apps together with all the libraries and services it depends on into a package called a container, which can then be delivered as a single unit wherever it needs to go. This functions kind of like a shipping container. Because most shipping containers are generally all the same shape, they can all be handled the same way, regardless of what they contain, likewise, no matter what your app’s architecture looks like. Funneling it into a Docker container allows your coworkers or customers to deploy it anywhere without worrying about what its components look like. Rather than worrying about how software should be built every time it changes hands between developers or operation staff. Docker standardizes how an app is built through a simple configuration file. Docker allows apps to be quickly and easily run on Windows, Mac, or Linux hosts. The growing Devops movement integrates the jobs of developers with the operation staff, who have to run their applications day to day. Docker is one of the essential DevOps tools. DevOps is a very broad topic but one of its key tenets is that we should prefer working systems over comprehensive documentation. Docker enables this by standardizing how systems run.

What are the main features of Docker?
	One of the main features of Docker is that it is a client based application software. Docker can also act as a service and can be deployed onto any server and can be deployed anywhere you choose. It is also a solution to a very common problem that occurs when testing a new application that works just fine on the developer's machine but not his or her colleague’s machine. Docker is compatible with almost any programming language and any application that you are trying to build. Docker is like a blank canvas where you can create almost anything you want. It is highly portable and it will work seamlessly from one machine to another. 

  Docker also allows you to have social containers that are shared just like your social status on Instagram or Facebook accounts. It allows you to publish these containers onto a social platform. It can act as a social networking platform so you can share your Docker image and it can be tested and deployed from any start point. It can also make something difficult, like installing MySQL into something easy and frictionless by using Docker. Docker manages all of these tasks for you. Perhaps it is best to explain it in the following way. Let’s say a teacher has a lesson for his bootcamp students using programs written in C++. Rather than having the student install all sorts of software on his machine. The teacher can make a docker container and share it with the student so within a few minutes the student can download and have access to this socially shared docker machine with CROW installed and with the “Hello World” program already configured and processed.