What is an operating system?
An operating system is the whole package that manages a computer’s resources and allows us to interact with it. There are two main parts to an operating system. The Kernel and the User Space. The Kernel is the main core of the operating system. It talks directly to our hardware and manages our system’s resources. As users we don’t normally interact with the Kernel directly. We instead interact with the second part, the User Space. The user space contains things like user interfaces and system programs. Although there are hundreds of operating systems most of us are familiar with Windows, Mac and Linux operating systems. One of the first things you see when you turn on any of these types or computers is their operating system’s interface. 
The main job of the operating system is to help all other programs work by handling the messy details of controlling the computer’s hardware. The operating system is the core software component of a computer and provides an interface between the hardware and software. Let’s just say for example that you wanted to open an application. You would touch, mouse click or open it using the terminal. Any one of these methods is called an event. When you send that click via the mouse, keyboard or touch screen, it’s the operating system’s job to watch for that event. When you click open an application, part of the operating system’s job is to stash that mouse or keyboard click’s information in memory until it can be processed. In addition to storing events as data, applications are data, and what’s inside those applications are data, like documents, photographs, video and music. In order to save all this data your computer uses a few different types of electronic storage depending on the priority and type of data you want to store. To efficiently store data, there are a few different types of memory storage that are used. RAM (random access memory) and ROM(permanent memory). One example of how this works is when you turn on your computer and it loads the operating system, it usually does this from ROM (permanent storage to the system’s RAM (temporary storage). This allows the CPU to have immediate access to the operating system. 

Describe the types of operating systems.
Most of us are likely aware of the major multitasking operating systems that manage our computers like our Windows, Mac and Linux laptops or the Iphone and Android devices we use and carry around all year long. Most people have a preferred choice and settle for the convenience of use and familiarity. These complex pieces of software are designed for powerful hardware and are easily capable of running many programs at once since their OS can prioritize Hardware task requests known as system calls and allocate processing time or memory space as needed. 

There are of course many more less talked about operating systems that we use on a daily basis but are way less excited by. One example is the Embedded Operating System which is still essential for low powered, limited functionality devices like media players, video cameras, GPS units, fancy dishwashers, or even the networking router which you are most likely using right now. Other times when dealing with heavy machinery a system’s need to process quickly and reliably will be more important than it’s need to be flexible and easy to program for. In these circumstances programmers turn to Real Time Operating Systems. This is like a special variety of an embedded OS. Much like it’s name suggests, it uses specially written scheduling algorithms to ensure that vital information is processed by designated orders and within specified time windows. These types of operating systems can be found on shipping stations, robotic assembly lines, medical equipment, and certain vehicle components. There are also operating systems that try to avoid normal hardware constraints by utilizing network connections to run virtual OS’s like servers. In addition there are templated systems which use hypervisors to create several virtual machine images on one extremely high powered system which users can access via a network. Distributed systems combine and then allocate the resources for many physical machines. The Batch operating system is quite old and came into use to improve upon manual methods of input. Instead of being given one program at a time computers could now be given batches. When one program was done it could start another almost instantaneously with no down time. 

What are the services of an OS Subsystem?
Scheduling is a service that determines a good order in which input / output is implemented.t . It gives priority to the process which will be executed first. A device queue is maintained for every blocking I/O request. The requests are scheduled according to any scheduling algorithm that increases the performance of a system. 
Buffering is a service that stores data in memory while transferring between devices. Buffering is done for two reasons. The first one is to cope with device speed mismatch. The second is to cope with device transfer size mismatch. 
Catching is a service that involves keeping a copy of data in a faster access location than where the data is normally stored.
Spooling is a service process in which data is temporarily held to be used and executed by a device, program or the system itself. 
Device Reservation is the process that makes the system calls for allocation and deallocation.
Error Handling services involve using processes such as error control which implements system error logs that hold problem reports. Another process it uses is called I/O protection which causes I/O to be performed via system calls. 
All of these services allow the kernel to access hardware devices using the device drivers.

Explain portability.
Portability is a characteristic of a software program. A piece of software is considered portable, if it can be used in an operating system different from the one different from the one in which it was created. A good example would be if you owned an old windows pc and you suddenly decided to bring it back to life by installing a linux operating system on it as it’s main OS. Something like installing Ubuntu or Mint on an old pc really puts this into perspective. 

Explain Network Topology
A topology is the layout of how a network communicates with different devices. There are a couple of different categories of topologies. We have wired and wireless for example. Examples of wired topologies are as follows. A common wired topology is star topology. In a star topology all computers are connected to a central wiring point such as a hub or a switch. All data passes through this central point before continuing to its destination. 
Ring topology is a type of network configuration where each computer is connected to each other in the shape of a closed loop or ring. Every computer on this ring has exactly two neighbors for communication purposes. Each data packet is sent around the ring until it reaches its final destination. It is very old and rarely used these days. 
Bus topology is also very old and not used today very much at all. This is the kind of network setup where each of the computers and network devices are connected to a single cable or backbone.This backbone is the coaxial cable. The computers connect to this cable using special connectors called BNC, which are also known as T connectors.
There is also the Mesh topology. In a Mesh topology each topology on the network is connected to every other computer on the network. By handling so many connections it handles connection failure very well. This is very similar to the Internet that we know and love. 
Wireless topologies are as follows. Infrastructure topology uses a combination of wired and wireless devices. This is very similar to a Star topology. Ad hoc topology is a very simple wireless topology. It is simple because it doesn’t rely on any infrastructure, such as cables, routers, servers or wireless access points. All devices are wirelessly connected in a simple peer to peer network. 
Wireless Mesh topologies are similar to wired mesh topologies, where devices are interconnected with each other but with the exception that they are wirelessly connected. 