Explain what is Python
	Python is an interpreted, Object Oriented, high level programming language, with Dynamic Semantics. It was created by Guido Van Rossum. Named after Monty Python’s Flying Circus. It’s seriously flexible and accessible, which makes it popular with some of the world’s biggest organizations like Google, Nasa, and even the CIA. Pythos is designed to be clean and easy to read. Python is a general purpose language. This means it can be used to build just about anything. The U.S. Government uses Python to do statistical analysis and data visualizations. Companies like Spotify, Evernot, and OKCupid rely on Python for personalized recommendations and other artificial intelligence based tasks. Disney, Pixar, Lucasfilm and others use Python to provide more realistic effects in their movies. Large familiar websites like YouTube, Instagram, Reddit, Pinterest, and even Onion lean on Python. Python can also be used for face and speech recognition. 

	Most importantly Python has recently become one the most popular programming languages for Ethical Hacking. Some Nifty Python libraries like Pulsar, NAPALM, NetworkX etc. make developing network tools a breeze. Ethical Hackers generally develop small scripts and Python being a scripting language provides amazing performance for small programs. Python has a huge community, hence any doubt related to programming is quickly solved by the community.

Explain Python Data Types
	Python Data Types work like most modern programming language Data Types. Numbers for example can be represented as either Integers or Floats in Python. Integers are positive or negative whole numbers that can be represented without a decimal point. Floats are considered real numbers and thus will be represented with decimal points included even if they are zero. You can also use the “type” function to literally type out the data type for you. You can also transform a float into an integer by using the “int” function. Also as expected the “float” function can also transform a whole number into a real number using this same technique. Another very important data type is the Boolean data type. This can only have a true or false value. This corresponds to the machine logic or only understanding 1’s and 0’s, on or off. When working with Boolean data types you must be sure to type them out with capital letters. Otherwise Python will not recognize your value as a Boolean and will display an error message instead. 
	Strings are text values composed of a sequence of characters. All strings must be wrapped by single or double quotes in order for the machine to recognise them. In order to print out long values that consist of variables, numbers and letters you must make use of useful syntax like plus signs for concatenation and the “str” function to convert variables into strings so they can be printed out. The best thing about python data types is that python automatically detects your data types for you so you don’t have to declare them.

Explain what is a Function
	A function is like a mini program. Python functions can take in data and return data.. The inputs written in the function call are called arguments. The inputs written in the function definition are called parameters. Every function has a body or code block where you will write the code to be executed. 
While learning how to program we are usually introduced with small functions like print or input. Later we learn to nest our program in a larger main function that holds your “hello world” program. Later on we learn how to use functions in more complex ways. Because it would be impractical to write a program that holds dozens or hundreds and even thousands of lines of code in a single main function. We can make and use functions that can hold the most relevant actions in your program. Functions can simultaneously make your code more elegant and better designed as well as properly organize your code with caller and helper functions. The way a caller and helper function work is quite elegant. The helper function, also sometimes known as the definition function can return a value back to the main caller function once it has computed its value to make your program run smoothly. The caller function can do many different things with that information. Like store it in a variable for later use or use it immediately like an input or print function. The parameters of the helper function or defined function are what give the value to the caller function for its use. 

Explain the Python Print Statement
	The Python print statement is a sequence of elements that we write to it and are listed out. Just like a list, they have an index that corresponds to its location in the list. These elements are stored as references, meaning that when we create this list of elements using the print statement, what we are actually doing is going to a part of our computer’s memory that's called a heap. There we are creating a list with the date types we choose to use. If we store this data in a variable what we are doing is that we are actually storing the position of that list in our computer’s memory. You can also think of it as your variable box pointing at the list object. Python understands this reference under the hood and will print out the values that are entered on that value list or words or numbers. 
	The print statement in Python is the very first tool you use to write something like the famous “Hello World” Under the hood it's really a list of elements as stated earlier. It must be emphasized again that in order for the print statement to work properly it has to be written using the correct python syntax. Little things like not using quotes to wrap your strings will throw out errors every time. Also don’t forget to “str” type your variables when using them in a sentence to avoid more console errors. 